Skip to content
Go to file
Latest commit ef55525 Oct 15, 2020 History
11 contributors

Users who have contributed to this file

@balena-ci @michal-mazurek @Page- @lifeeth @pcarranzav @petrosagg @Jonth4 @lorenzo-stoakes @nazrhom @lekkas @annymsMthd
3306 lines (2765 sloc) 107 KB

Change log



  • readme: DCHP -> DHCP [Matthew McGinn]



  • bootfiles: blacklist proper grub configuration backend [Matthew McGinn]



  • docker-disk: Allow expanding data filesystem on 2TB disks [Alexandru Costache]



  • Blacklist supervisor configuration backend files during HUP [Alex Gonzalez]



  • hooks: fix up improperly named variable [Matthew McGinn]



  • Wait for the root device to come up when necessary [Michal Toman]



  • Respect balenaRootCA system-wide [Michal Toman]



  • os-helpers-logging: Log to stderr rather than stdout [Michal Toman]



  • Update libmbim to 1.24.2, libqmi to 1.26.0, modemmanager to 1.14.2 [Vicentiu Galanopulo]



Update balena-supervisor from v11.13.0 to v11.14.0 [Cameron Diver]



  • Add device system information to state endpoint patch [Cameron Diver]



Update balena-supervisor from v11.12.4 to v11.13.0 [Cameron Diver]



  • added support for configuring ODMDATA [Miguel Casqueira]



  • bug: Resolve mDNS API URLs [Rich Bayliss]



  • Preventing removing all configurations if device has no backends [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Don't enforce the vc4-fkms-v3d dtoverlay on rpi4 [Cameron Diver]



Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Removed unused dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]
  • circleci: update docker [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update to balena-lint 5.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Detect error events in push/pull progress streams [Paulo Castro]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update to balena-lint 5.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Allow setting ENV variables in the live image [Roman Mazur]
  • Bump dockerode types dependency [Roman Mazur]



  • Update README with information about live directives [Cameron Diver]



  • 🔭 Add a file watcher which can be used by library users [Cameron Diver]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update README with correct instantiation method [CameronDiver]



Update typed-error to 3.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • update deps and specify minimum engine requirements [Will Boyce]



  • dev: Enforce prettier coding standards [Will Boyce]
  • npm: Update dependencies and remove package-lock.json [Will Boyce]
  • codeowners: Add top contributors @wrboyce, @Page-, and @dfunckt [Will Boyce]
  • versionbot: Add CHANGELOG.yml (for nested changelogs) [Will Boyce]



  • Update README with new import style [CameronDiver]



  • Update to typescript 3 [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Update dev dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add node-10 to the circle test suite [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Distribute generated typescript declaration [Will Boyce]
  • use circle for build/publish and add package-lock [Will Boyce]
  • add lint scripts/requirements [Will Boyce]
  • Remove BaseError class and directly subclass Error [Will Boyce]
  • Update dependencies, clean up package/tsconfig [Will Boyce]



  • Add LICENSE [Akis Kesoglou]



Update pinejs-client-request to 7.2.1 [Pagan Gazzard]



Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Fix prepare $count typings [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Improve typings for request/post/put/patch/delete [Pagan Gazzard]



Update pinejs-client-core to 6.6.1 [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Fix typing when id is specified to be AnyObject | undefined [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Deprecate $expand: { 'a/$count': {...} } [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Deprecate resource: 'a/$count' and update typings to reflect it [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add options: { $count: { ... } } sugar for top level $count [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add $expand: { a: { $count: { ... } } } sugar for $count in expands [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Improve return typing of subscribe method [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Fix Poll.on typings [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Improve return typing when id is passed to GET methods [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Remove PromiseResult type, use Promise<PromiseResultTypes> instead [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Remove PromiseObj type, use Promise<{}> instead [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add $filter: { a: { $count: 1 } } sugar for $count in filters [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Remove redundant ParamsObj/SubscribeParamsObj types [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Make use of mapObj helper in more places [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Use Object.keys in preference to hasOwnProperty where applicable [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Refactor configurable backend class names [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Pack /lib/vdso/Makefile in kernel-modules-headers [Vicentiu Galanopulo]



balena-supervisor: Update to v11.12.4 [Alex Gonzalez]



  • bug: Firewall not blocking supervisor access from outside the device [Rich Bayliss]



  • bug: Allow DNS through firewall for local containers [Rich Bayliss]



  • Package iwlwifi-cc-a0-48 firmware separately [Florin Sarbu]



Update balena-supervisor from v11.9.9 to v11.12.2 [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix device-tag fetching function [Cameron Diver]



Update resumable-request [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Optimize lodash dependency [Pagan Gazzard]



Update contrato to 0.5 [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Remove handlebars-helpers to shrink bundle size [Pagan Gazzard]



Update skhema to 5.x [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Switch to typed-error [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]


  • filter: Throw a custom error if the schema is invalid [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Add test to show .filter() not working correctly [StefKors]
  • When combining with baseSchema merge enum with AND operator [StefKors]


  • Ensure values in "enum" are unique [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • filter: Correctly handle "enum" inside "anyOf" [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • merge: Be explicit about additionalProperties [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Add a resolver for the const keyword [Lucian]


  • Configure AJV instances with an LRU cache [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Set addUsedSchema to false in all AJV instances [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Fix bug in scoreMatch when handling arrays [Lucian]


  • Fix bad require name and .only in tests [Lucian]


(Invalid date)
  • .filter(): Only match if the base schema matches [Lucian Buzzo]


  • Add ability to provide custom resolvers to merge() [Lucian]


  • Split up and optimize lodash dependencies [Lucian]


  • feature: Implement method for restricting a schema by another schema [Lucian Buzzo]


(Invalid date)
  • Remove ability to add custom keywords or formats [Lucian]


(Invalid date)
  • Improve performance of clone operations [Lucian]


  • Don't bust AJV cache [Lucian]


  • Add benchmark tests [Giovanni Garufi]


  • Recurse through nested anyOf statements when filtering [Lucian]


  • Treat undefined additionalProperties as true instead of false [Lucian]


(Invalid date)
  • stryker: Increase test timeout [Juan Cruz Viotti]
  • test: Configure Stryker for mutative testing [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Define additionalProperty inheritance in anyOf [Giovanni Garufi]
  • Formalising filtering logic [Lucian]
  • Added failing test case with mutation [Lucian]


  • hotfix: Make sure things that should be filtered are filtered [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • filter: Force additionalProperties: true on match schemas [Juan Cruz Viotti]


  • Validate against just the schema if options.schemaOnly is true [Lucian Buzzo]


  • merge: When merging an empty array, return a wildcard schema [Lucian Buzzo]


  • validate: Make object optional [Lucian Buzzo]



  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for nested changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add logical operator support in templates [Stevche Radevski]



  • Bump elliptic from 6.5.2 to 6.5.3 [dependabot[bot]]
Update pinejs-client-request and make use of a named key [Pagan Gazzard]



Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add support for using named ids [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Drop unnecessary async from request() [Thodoris Greasidis]



  • Increase default timeout to 59s [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Fixes documentation - ping doesn't need apiKey and minor documentation formatting changes. [Nitish Agarwal]



  • Fixes #1299 v1 start/stop endpoint issue with service access. [Nitish Agarwal]



  • bug: Fix undefined containerId object [Rich Bayliss]



  • fix matching extra_uEnv backend with unsupported devices [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Fix an issue with reporting initial config using a stale target state [Pagan Gazzard]



  • fix up "atleast" -> "at least" [Matthew McGinn]



  • Support setting device/fleet configuration in extra_uEnv.txt [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Extract current state reporting to its own module [Pagan Gazzard]



  • log detection of changes to VPN status [dt-rush]



  • balena-unique-key: Ensure config.json is synced after replacing [Alexandru Costache]



  • flasher-register: if no supervisor information found, report null [Matthew McGinn]



  • systemd: Set net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter in balena-os-sysctl [Alexandru Costache]



  • Use a named key when querying for device by uuid [Pagan Gazzard]



  • supervisor: allow supervisor updates without controlling the supervisor state [Matthew McGinn]



balena-supervisor: Update to v11.9.9 [Rich Bayliss]



  • common: Fix bug where aliases might be undefined [Rich Bayliss]



  • resin-supervisor: Create required directories before launch [Alex Gonzalez]



balena-supervisor: Update to v11.9.8 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Bump lodash from 4.17.15 to 4.17.19 [dependabot[bot]]



  • docker-utils: Test network gateway determination logic [Rich Bayliss]
  • Fix docker-util using incorrect reference for function [Miguel Casqueira]



  • recipes-containers/balena: Use separate service for loading healthcheck image [Alexandru Costache]



balena-supervisor: Update to v11.9.6 [Rich Bayliss]



  • Fix purge and restart invocations by providing instanced apps [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix purge invocations of new singletons [Cameron Diver]



  • Update ESR version information [Cameron Diver]



  • Add support for aufs5 on kernel 5.x variants [Florin Sarbu]
  • Force choosing busybox-hwclock over util-linux-hwclock [Alex Gonzalez]



  • provisioning: provide base supervisor_version during provision [Matthew McGinn]



  • Add LZ4 support config for older kernels [Alexandru Costache]



  • Remove unnecessary config.json keys [Pagan Gazzard]



  • resin-supervisor: Create required directories before launch [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Rebrand custom resin logos [Alex Gonzalez]
  • plymouth: Remove patch that sets plymouth resin theme [Alex Gonzalez]
  • docker-disk: Update dind container to v19.03.10 [Michal Toman]
  • docker-disk: Update to still supported dind container [Gergely Imreh]
  • Use udev for setting up wlan power management [Michal Toman]
  • Use --mount instead of --volume for bind mounts to the supervisor container. [Robert Günzler]



Update balena-supervisor from v11.9.3 to v11.9.4 [Rich Bayliss]



  • bug: Fix unhandled promise rejection [Rich Bayliss]



  • Update to use api v6 and fix a quoting bug [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Allow comments in iptables ruleset [Alex Gonzalez]



Update balena-supervisor from v11.4.10 to v11.9.3 [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix bug where a promise was not resolved in db-format [Cameron Diver]
  • Convert deviceConfig module to a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • avahi: Control with HOST_DISCOVERABILITY [Cameron Diver]



  • firewall: Add Host Firewall functionality [Rich Bayliss]



  • Added support for configuring FDT directive in extlinux.conf [Miguel Casqueira]



  • state: Report device MAC address to the API [Rich Bayliss]



Update pinejs-client-request to 7.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Empty commit to attempt republish [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Switch from bluebird-lru-cache to lru-cache for caching [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Update target to es2018 [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Remove bluebird dependency [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert to async/await [Pagan Gazzard]
Update to pinejs-client-core 6.x [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Increase minimum es version to es2015 [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert to async/await [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Remove now unnecessary PinejsClientCoreFactory [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Switch to using native promises [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Drop support for deprecated request overrides [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Drop support for deprecated query method [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Drop support for deprecated string based requests [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Use ; for expand options instead of & [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Lazy load bluebird-lru-cache and lodash [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Convert some lodash usage to native versions [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Remove unused dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Generate optional builds for es2015/es2018 as well as the default es5 [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Make transformGetResult a method , to ease overriding the get method [Thodoris Greasidis]



  • Add linting [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Move require-npm4-to-publish to dev dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]
Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • update deps and specify minimum engine requirements [Will Boyce]


  • 🐛: Fix missing deprecated.getStringParams function [Andreas Fitzek]


  • Update to resin-lint 3.x [Pagan Gazzard]


  • CircleCI: Remove deploy job as it's handled by balenaCI [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add the missing method on the post method [Thodoris Greasidis]


  • Deprecate request overrides [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Deprecate queries using a string url [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Deprecate query in favor of get [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Allow resource/$count in $filter [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Remove defaults helper in favour of ?? [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Avoid allocations when destroying a poll [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Improve RawFilter typing [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Switch most CODEOWNERS entries to a team [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add 'upsert' method supporting natural keys, requires Pinejs ^10.19.1 [Thodoris Greasidis]


  • Remove unnecessary string type that is handled by the Params type [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Use an .npmrc to prevent creating a package-lock on each install [Thodoris Greasidis]


  • Add some type casting so that it compiles on TypeScript 3.5 [Thodoris Greasidis]


  • Fix downstream declaration creation errors due to Dictionary [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add a prepare method that prepares a query into a function [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add CODEOWNERS [Gergely Imreh]


  • Add support for parameter aliases in resource ids [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Deduplicate transformation of GET results [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Simplify how we expose types, which means subscribe is now exposed [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Add automatic formatting via prettier [Pagan Gazzard]


  • Remove node 4 build, add node 12 [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add .versionbot/CHANGELOG.yml for downstream changelogs [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add CODEOWNERS [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add node 12 tests [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add upstream for pinejs-client-core [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update target to es2016, part of/fixing the typed-error bump [Pagan Gazzard]



  • typed-error: Update to v3.1.0 [Will Boyce]



  • Make service-manager module a singleton [Cameron Diver]
  • Make volume-manager module a singleton [Cameron Diver]
  • Make network-manager module a singleton [Cameron Diver]
  • Add supervisor upgrade document [Hugh Brown]



  • Update webpack dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Use API v6 [Akis Kesoglou]



  • Db-format module code fixups [Cameron Diver]



  • Add label to expose gpu to container [Robert Günzler]



  • Move database app processing out to its own module [Cameron Diver]
  • Make target-state-cache a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • Respect an initialDeviceName field in the config.json [Cameron Diver]



  • Make images module a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • fix: API auth missing on state GET/PATCH [Rich Bayliss]



  • Refactored @ts-ignore to @ts-expect-error in test file [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Make logger module a singleton [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix exponential backoff for state polling [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Make the event-tracker module a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • Convert all test files to TS and add .spec to all filenames [Miguel Casqueira]
  • fix: Pin alpine python version [Rich Bayliss]



  • Isolate target state fetching to its own module which emits on update [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Make docker module a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • Make the config module a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • Remove unused dependencies and dedupe [Cameron Diver]



  • Refactor device-state healthchecks to log reason for failure [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Make the db module a singleton [Cameron Diver]



  • Check for ApiError before using it as such [Cameron Diver]



  • check for 409 status code, rather than string matching uuid conflicts [Cameron Diver]



  • Use safeStateClone to avoid call-stack exceeding errors [Cameron Diver]



  • Improved handling of invalid appId in V2 state endpoint [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Switch to balenaApi for the state patch as patching cannot be cached [Pagan Gazzard]



  • systemd: Simplify zram swap unit dependencies to avoid ordering cycle [Alex Gonzalez]



  • kernel-resin: Make USB_SERIAL and USB_SERIAL_GENERIC built-ins [Alex Gonzalez]
  • kernel-resin: Fix configuration warnings from newer kernels [Alex Gonzalez]
  • kernel-resin: Update balena kernel configuration for updated engine [Alex Gonzalez]



  • Fix up UUID variable when communicating with API [Matthew McGinn]



  • Add compressed memory swap support [Alex Gonzalez]
  • systemd-zram-swap: Add compressed memory swap support [Alex Gonzalez]
  • kernel-resin: Built-in zram configuration [Alex Gonzalez]



  • resin-ntp-config: merge 'burst' command with 'add server' line [Mark Corbin]



  • resin-image: Install extra_uEnv.txt in boot partition [Alexandru Costache]



  • initrdscripts: rootfs: Fix comparison to account for empty variable [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Use UUID rather than ID when communicating with API [Matthew McGinn]



  • Set chrony default servers as pools [Matthew McGinn]



  • Generate nested changelogs for balena-engine [Robert Günzler]



  • Revert allowing local resin-supervisor image updates [Alex Gonzalez]



  • Disable u-boot console, silence u-boot in production builds [Florin Sarbu]



  • openvpn: Add runtime dependency on bash [Willem Remie]



  • balena-engine: Update to 19.03.13 [Robert Günzler]



  • Use correct SRC_URI for bindmount [Florin Sarbu]



  • os-helpers-fs: Fix shellcheck warnings [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Fallback to label root device matching to support devices with closed source bootloaders [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Fallback to labels and partlabels for devices with custom HUPs [Alex Gonzalez]



  • Enable the Analog Devices AD5446 kernel driver [Florin Sarbu]



  • networkmanager: Remove build warning [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Remove busybox-syslog to use only systemd's journald [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Update CODEOWNERS [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Backport NM patch for setting modem MTU correctly [Florin Sarbu]
  • update-resin-supervisor: short circuit if remote image cannot be fetched [Matthew McGinn]
Update balena-supervisor from v11.4.1 to v11.4.10 [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix leftover spurious return from typescript conversion [Cameron Diver]



  • Catch errors in the target state poll so polling will always continue [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Avoid querying instantUpdates on every state poll [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Fix default request options [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Remove CoffeeScript tests and all CoffeeScript tools [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Update to @balena/lint 5.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add a random offset to the poll interval with each poll [Cameron Diver]



  • Cache service names in local log backend [Cameron Diver]



  • Update engine information in package.json [Cameron Diver]



  • Use /tmp as bootparam_root storage [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Update to libqmi v1.24.10 [Michal Toman]
  • Set rust 1.36 as the preferred rust version from meta-balena-common [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Turn off wlan0 power save [Michal Toman]
Update os-config from 1.1.3 to 1.1.4 [Alex Gonzalez]



  • versionbot: Add changelog yml file [Alex Gonzalez]
Update balena-supervisor from v11.3.0 to v11.4.1 [Cameron Diver]



  • Correctly check if value is a valid Integer [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Added endpoint to check if VPN is connected [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Fixed stubs for test suite [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Added more documentation to help new contributors start developing [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Fix dindctl script and update balenaos-in-container [Cameron Diver]



  • Remove unnecessary config.json keys [Pagan Gazzard]



  • CI: Use node 12 for tests to match runtime version [Pagan Gazzard]
  • CI: Use docker 18 client to match remote [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Move SupervisorAPI state change logs to appropriate functions [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Add 20k-ultra to codeowners [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Don't use the openvpn alias to check VPN status [Cameron Diver]



  • Use lstat rather than stat to avoid error with symlinks in sync [Cameron Diver]



  • Move build files into build-conf and rename to build-utils [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix knex migration require translation [Cameron Diver]



  • Remove legacy fallback to DROP rule in iptables [Cameron Diver]
  • Add an ESTABLISHED flag to API iptables rules [Cameron Diver]
  • Add ESR information to repo.yml [Cameron Diver]
Update balena-supervisor from v10.11.0 to v11.3.0 [Cameron Diver]



  • Added Bearer Authorization spec [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Added explanation README for running specific tests [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Remove coverage running and modules [Cameron Diver]



  • Update balena-register-device to fix provisioning [Cameron Diver]



  • Added protocol to link [Miguel Casqueira]



  • Actually remove dbus-native dependency [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix livepush predicate for POSIX sh in [Cameron Diver]



  • Remove double printing of API status error [Cameron Diver]



  • ⤴️ Upgrade migrations to work with knex [Cameron Diver]
  • 📄 Upgrade knex to avoid CVE-2019-10757 [Cameron Diver]



  • 🔎 Also watch js files during livepush [Cameron Diver]
  • Clear changed files after successful livepush invocation [Cameron Diver]
  • Use livepush commands for copying and running dev specific steps [Cameron Diver]



  • 🚀 Update supervisor to node12 [Cameron Diver]



  • Move from dbus-native to dbus [Cameron Diver]



  • Update copy-webpack-plugin [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Update ts-loader to 6.x [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Update fork-ts-checker-webpack-plugin to 4.x [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Support matching on device type within contracts [Cameron Diver]



  • Workaround a circular dependency [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Link sqlite with a system sqlite for quicker builds [Cameron Diver]



  • Convert to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Don't sync test files with livepush [Cameron Diver]



  • Add newTargetState event and use it for backup loading [Cameron Diver]



  • Don't wrap UpdatesLockedErrors with a detailed error [Cameron Diver]



  • Allow spaces in volume definitions [Cameron Diver]



  • Update to balena-register-device 6.0.1 [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Don't mangle names when minimising with webpack [Cameron Diver]



  • Update synchronisation scripts for supervisor development [Cameron Diver]
  • 🔧 Move to an alpine base image and drop i386-nlp support [Cameron Diver]



  • Convert test/ to typescript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to typescript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert test/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Pass in deviceId when fetching device tags [Cameron Diver]



  • 🔧 Update resin-lint -> balena-lint in lintstaged [Cameron Diver]
Update os-config from 1.1.1 to 1.1.3 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Reorder module dependencies [Zahari Petkov]
  • Pin serde version to v1.0.94 [Zahari Petkov]



  • Block on random until success [Zahari Petkov]
  • Use parse_filters instead of parse [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • balena-host: Ignore environment file if it does not exist [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Bump balena-engine to 18.09.17 [Robert Günzler]
  • networkmanager: Use absolute path in drop-in [Sven Schwermer]
  • Update ModemManager to v1.12.8 [Michal Toman]
  • Update balena-engine to 18.09.16 [Robert Günzler]
  • Add support for using udev by-state links in balenaOS [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Add initramfs module to regenerate default filesystem UUIDs [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Create udev state symlinks for all partitions [Alex Gonzalez]
  • initramfs-framework: Add os-helpers to module prepare [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Fix initramfs fsck warnings for the boot partition [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Switch to built-in FAT kernel configs [Andrei Gherzan]
Update balena-supervisor from v10.8.0 to v10.11.0 [Cameron Diver]



  • Add BALENA_DEVICE_ARCH environment variable for containers [Cameron Diver]



  • Don't throw an error when getting an unhealthy state [Cameron Diver]



  • Convert src/device-api/ to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Switch to mz for the proxyvisor [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Convert proxyvisor to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Remove unnecessary code from application-manager [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Switch to a named export for application-manager [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Convert device-api/v1 to javascript [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Update livepush [Cameron Diver]



  • Add type checking for javascript files [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Pin resin-cli-visuals to avoid build error of lzma-native [Cameron Diver]
  • Update dependencies [Cameron Diver]



  • Avoid any transpilation of node_modules [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Add transpilation for javascript files to ease node 6 compatibility [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add a precheck that linting/tests work on node 10 [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Update to balena-lint and enable javascript linting [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Tests: Add missing await [Pagan Gazzard]



  • docs: Clarify update locks for multicontainer applications [Gareth Davies]



  • logging: fix up some typos [Matthew McGinn]



  • Bump acorn from 5.7.3 to 5.7.4 [dependabot[bot]]



  • Update dependencies [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Allow semver comparison on l4t versions in contracts [Cameron Diver]
  • Allow l4t versions with three numbers as well as two [Cameron Diver]



  • config: Support loading SSDT via ConfigFS [Rich Bayliss]



  • Convert device-state module to typescript [Cameron Diver]
  • Improve application-manager typings [Cameron Diver]
  • Improve and extend internal typings [Cameron Diver]



  • Add a containerId request parameter for journal-logs api endpoint, and pass it along to journalctl process options. [Ivan]



  • Add the linux-firmware recipe from the Poky zeus-22.0.1 release and package various iwlwifi firmware separately [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add regulatory.db (Wireless Central Regulatory Domain Database) to rootfs so kernel versions >= v4.15 can load it (for Poky Thud and Warrior based board) [Florin Sarbu]
  • Do not send SIGKILL directly to user containers (set KillMode=process in balena.service) [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update balena-supervisor from to v10.8.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Update config.json documentation for disabling NM connectivity checks [Gareth Davies]
  • Fix a typo in a NetworkManager plugin path [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Remove unnecessary openvpn v2.4.4 recipe in meta-resin-pyro. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Use a weak default assignment in a recipe for customer trying to override a variable in his layer [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Affects 2.45+ on all devices. Fix dangling sshd services on failed connections that would grow and cause cpu load to keep rising. See issue 1837 in meta-balena for more detail. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update usb-modeswitch-data to version 20191128 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update usb-modeswitch to version 2.5.2 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update to ModemManager v1.12.4 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update libmbim to version 1.22.0 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update libqmi to version 1.24.4 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add periodic vacuuming of journald log files [Alex Gonzalez]
  • No user impact. Increase limit for maximum initramfs size from 12MB to 32MB. This helps reduce unnecessary overrides in integration layers. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Match licenses with license files. [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Enable sixaxis support in bluez5 [Alexis Svinartchouk]
  • Addressing review comments [Gareth Davies]
  • Update config.json documentation [Gareth Davies]
  • Increase DNS clients timeout to 15 seconds [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Fix supervisor nested changelogs [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Enable memory overcommit [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Add uinput kernel module [Florin Sarbu]
  • Make sure to add in rootfs the wifi firmware for wl18xx [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add supported USB WiFi dongle [Vicentiu Galanopulo]



  • Americanize the [Matthew McGinn]



  • Disable by default the option to stop u-boot autoboot by pressing CTRL+C in all OS versions [Florin Sarbu]
  • Increase NTP polling time to around 4.5 hours. [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Disable the option to stop u-boot autoboot by pressing CTRL+C in production OS version [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update to ModemManager v1.12.2 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update libmbim to version 1.20.2 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update libqmi to version 1.24.2 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.6.27 [Cameron Diver]
  • Tweak how the flasher asserts that internal media is valid for being installed balena OS on [Florin Sarbu]
  • Remove networkmanager stale temporary files at startup [Alex Gonzalez]
  • networkmanager: Rework patches to remove fuzzing [Alex Gonzalez]
  • Update openvpn to v2.4.7 [Will Boyce]
  • Enable kernel configs for USB_SERIAL, USB_SERIAL_PL2303 and HFS for all devices [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • image-resin.bbclass: Mark do_populate_lic_deploy with nostamp [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Namespace the hello-world healthcheck image [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.6.17 [Cameron Diver]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.6.13 [Cameron Diver]
  • Update CODEOWNERS [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Fix for a race condition where occasionally the supervisor might not be able to come up during boot. Also can be caused by using io.balena.features.balena-socket and app container restart always policy. Affects meta-balena 2.44.0 and 2.45.0. To be fixed in 2.44.1 and 2.46.0 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Rename resin to balena where possible [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add leading new line for PACKAGE_INSTALL variable [Vicentiu Galanopulo]
  • Set net.ipv4.ip_local_port_range to recommended range (49152-65535) [Will Boyce]
  • No user impact, subtle fix in rollback version checks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Increase persistent journal size to 32M [Will Boyce]
  • Move persistent logs from state to data partition [Will Boyce]
  • Add wpa-supplicant recipe and update to v2.9 [Will Boyce]
  • Improve robustness by making variou services restart if they stop for some reason [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Build net/dummy as module [Alexandru Costache]



  • Make uboot dev images autoboot delay build time configurable. Default is no delay [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Reduce systemd logging level from info to notice [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • resin-supervisor: Expose container ID via env variable [Roman Mazur]
  • kernel-devsrc: Copy file in source archive if available [Sebastian Panceac]
  • Disable PasswordAuthentication in sshd in production images as an extra precautionary measure. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-engine to 18.9.10 [Robert Günzler]
  • hostapp-update-hooks: Filter out automount for inactive sysroot [Alexandru Costache]
  • Add support for hooks 2.0 enabling finer granularity during HostOS updates. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.3.7 [Cameron Diver]
  • Add support for balena cloud SSH public keys [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Map any user to root using libnss-ato [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add option to disable kernel headers from being built. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update NetworkManager to 1.20.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update ModemManager to 1.10.6 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • A small fix in initramfs when /dev/console is invalid due to whatever reason [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add automated testing for external kernel module header tarballs [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Make sure correct utsrelease.h is packaged [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix a bug where application containers with new systemd versions were failing to start in cases. Switch to systemd cgroup driver in balenaEngine [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update ModemManager to version 1.10.4 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix for some innocous systemd tmpfile warnings /var/run -> /run ones [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix for rollbacks where the inactive partition mount was unavailable when altboot triggered [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • kernel-resin: Enable FTDI USB-serial convertors driver [Sebastian Panceac]



  • Fix a hang in initramfs for warrior production images [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-engine to 18.09.8 [Robert Günzler]
  • Avoid overlayfs mounts in poky's volatile-binds [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.2.2 [Cameron Diver]
  • Workaround for a cornercase bug in PersistentLogging where journalctl filled the state partition. Vacuum the journal on boot. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • usb-modeswitch-data: Switch Huawei E3372 12d1:1f01 to mbim mode [Alexandru Costache]
  • Fix rollback altboots to prevent good reboots by supervisor triggering rollback. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Devices using u-boot. Remove any BOOTDELAY for production images. Add a 2 seconds delay for development images [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Devices using u-boot. Enable CONFIG_CMD_SETEXPR for all devices. Required for rollbacks to work [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Devices using u-boot. Enable rollback-altboot by handling bootcount via meta-balena. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Production Devices using u-boot. Enable CONFIG_RESET_TO_RETRY to reset a device in case it drops into a u-boot shell [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Remove confusing networkmanager https connectivity warning [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Increase fs.inotify.max_user_instances to 512 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v10.0.3 [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix balena hello-world healthcheck [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add nf_table kernel modules [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • hostapp-update-hooks: Use correct source for inactive sysroot [Alexandru Costache]
  • Add extra healthcheck to balena service. It will spin up a hello-world container as well [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.18.8 [Cameron Diver]
  • image-resin.bbclass: fixed a typo [Kyle Harding]
  • kernel-resin: Add support for CH340 family of usb-serial adapters [Sebastian Panceac]
  • resin-proxy-config: add missing reserved ip ranges to default noproxy [Will Boyce]
  • Reduce data partition size from 1G to 192M [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • resin-proxy-config: fix up incorrect bash subshell command [Matthew McGinn]



  • Update to kernel-modules-headers v0.0.20 to fix missing target modpost binary on kernel 5.0.3 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update to kernel-modules-headers v0.0.19 to fix target objtool compile issue on kernel 5.0.3 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Add warrior to compatible layers for meta-balena-common [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix image-resin.bbclass to be able to use deprecated layers [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix kernel-devsrc on thud when kernel version < 4.10 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Fix VERSION_ID os-release to be semver complient [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Introduce META_BALENA_VERSION in os-release [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix a case where changes to u-boot were not regenerating the config file at build time and using stale values. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Use all.rp_filter=2 as the default value in balenaOS [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Persist bluetooth storage data over reboots [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Drop support for morty and krogoth Yocto versions [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add Yocto Warrior support [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Set both VERSION_ID and VERSION in os-release to host OS version [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Bump balena-engine to 18.9.6 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Downgrade balena-supervisor to v9.15.7 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Switch from dropbear to openSSH [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Rename meta-resin-common to meta-balena-common [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add wifi firmware for rtl8192su [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.15.8 [Cameron Diver]
  • kernel-modules-headers: Update to v0.0.18 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • os-config: Update to v1.1.1 to fix mDNS [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix busybox nslookup mdns lookups [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.15.4 [Cameron Diver]
  • Improve logging and version comparison in linux-firmware cleanup class [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Sync ModemManager recipe with upstream [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update NetworkManager to 1.18.0 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Cleanup old versions of iwlwifi firmware files in Yocto Thud [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update kernel-module-headers to version v0.0.16 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add uboot support for unified kernel cmdline arguments [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Switch flasher detection in initramfs to flasher boot parameter [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.15.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Improve boot speed by only mounting the inactive partition when needed [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix openssl dependency of balena-unique-key [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Do not spawn getty in production images [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.14.10 [Cameron Diver]



  • Add support to update a connectivity section in NetworkManager via config.json [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • systemd: Fix journald configuration file [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add --max-download-attempts=10 to balenaEngine service to improve performance on shaky networks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-engine to 18.09.5 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Log initramfs messages to kernel dmesg to capture fsck, partition expand etc. command output [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • kernel-resin: Add FAT fs specific configs to RESIN_CONFIGS [Sebastian Panceac]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.14.9 [Cameron Diver]
  • Introduce meta-balena yocto thud support [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update os-config to 1.1.0 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Fixes for sysroot symlinks creation [Andrei Gherzan]
  • libmbim: Refresh patches after last update to avoid build warnings [Andrei Gherzan]
  • modemmanager: Refresh patches after last update to avoid build warnings [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Make security flags inclusion yocto version specific [Andrei Gherzan]
  • systemd: Make directory warning patch yocto version specific [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Replace wireless tools by iw [Andrei Gherzan]
  • systemd: Use a conf.d file for journald configuration [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Set go verison to 1.10.8 to match balena-engine requirements [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-engine to 18.09.3 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.14.6 [Cameron Diver]
  • resin-u-boot: make devtool-compatible [Sven Schwermer]
  • docker-disk: Disable unnecessary docker pid check [Armin Schlegel]
  • Update libmbim to version 1.18.0 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update libqmi to version 1.22.2 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update to ModemManager v1.10.0 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Add a OS_KERNEL_CMDLINE parameter that allows BSPs to easily add extra kernel cmdline args to production images [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • balena-supervisor: Update to v9.14.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • readme: Replace resin with balena where appropriate [Roman Mazur]
  • Add systemd-analyze to production images as well [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Enable dbus interface for dnsmasq [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Disable docker bridge while pulling the supervisor container to remove runtime balena-engine warnings [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix typo in os-networkmanager that prevented it from working [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix bug where fsck was run on the data partition on every boot even if it wasn't needed due to old system time. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix the balena version string reported by balena-engine info [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Only check mmc devices for flasher image presence by default. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Remove an extra redundant copy of udev rules database [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Un-upx mobynit and os-config to speed them up a bit. Approx 1 second boost to boot time. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.11.3 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • resin-supervisor: Recreate on start if config has changed [Rich Bayliss]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.11.2 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.11.1 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.11.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • README:md: Document dnsServers behaviour [Alexis Svinartchouk]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.9.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Cleanup old versions of iwlwifi firmware files in Yocto sumo [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Remove polkit dependency in balenaOS [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Remove support for XFS file system [Andrei Gherzan]
  • resin-init: update reference to balenaOS [Matthew McGinn]



  • resin-supervisor: Recreate on start if config has changed [Rich Bayliss]
  • Generate the temporary kernel-devsrc compressed archive in WORKDIR instead of B [Florin Sarbu]
  • balena-engine: Update to include fix for signal SIGRTMIN+3 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Reduce sleeps while trying to mount partition to speed up boot [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • resin-expand: Reduce sleep duration to speed up boot [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • initrdscripts: Reduce sleep to speed up boot [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Make balena-host daemon socket activated to reduce baseline cpu/memory usage [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v9.8.6 [Cameron Diver]
  • Add support for aufs 4.18.11+, 4.19, 4.20 variants and update 4.14, 4.14.56+, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, 4.18 [Florin Sarbu]
  • balena-engine: Bump to include runc patch [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Improve kernel-module-headers for v4.18+ kernels [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.8.3 [Cameron Diver]
  • Ask chrony to quickly take measurements from custom NTP servers when they are added [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Disable in-tree rtl8192cu driver [Florin Sarbu]
  • Prevent rollbacks from running if the previous OS is before v2.30.0 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Change rollbacks to accept hex partition numbers for jetsons [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Convert partition numbers to hex in u-boot hook. Shouldn't affect any device. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Reduce default reboot/poweroff timeouts from 30 minutes to 10 minutes [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Configure systemd tmpfiles to ignore supervisor tmp directories [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fixed "Can't have overlapping partitions." error in flasher [Alexandru Costache]
  • Define default DNS servers behaviour with and without google DNS [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.4.2 [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix for some warnings [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix tini filename after balena-engine rename [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix nm dispatcher hook when there are no custom ntp servers in config.json [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Improve persistent logging systemd service dependencies [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.3.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Use the new revision for balena source code [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add a workaround for a bug where the chronyc online command in network manager hook would get stuck and eat cpu cycles [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix img to rootfs dependency when img is invalidated [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Have boot partition type configurable as FAT32 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Deprecate morty and krogoth [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Deploy kernel source as a build artifact as well for external module compilation [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • kernel-devsrc: Tarball up the kernel source and deploy it. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • kernel-modules-headers: Use the build directory for artifacts [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • docs: Add documentation on nested changelogs [Giovanni Garufi]
  • VersionBot: update upstream name and url [Giovanni Garufi]



  • OS will default apps.json to an empty json file [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena-engine to include low entropy fixes [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Move an NM patch to the right place to reduce a warning [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v9.0.1 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Fix cases where RESIN_BOOT_PARTITION_FILES includes invalid entries [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Enable some common linux kernel serial device drivers [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Configure NetworkManager to only ignore our vpn interface but manage other tun devices [Andrei Gherzan]
  • networkmanager: Add pppd to FILES [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • networkmanager: Add balena-client-id.patch in bbappend [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Bump network manager from v1.12.2 to v1.14.4 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v8.7.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Fix test cases for kernel module header compilation [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add chrony v3.2 recipe in various layers to keep minimum chrony version on devices above v3.2 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • chrony/pyro: Add v3.2 recipe [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • chrony/morty: Add v3.2 recipe [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • chrony/krogoth: Bump recipe version to v3.2 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v8.6.8 [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update os-config to 1.0.0 [Zahari Petkov]
  • Update libqmi to version 1.20.2 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update libmbim to version 1.16.2 [Florin Sarbu]
  • kernel-modules-headers: Add basic sanity test [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix kernel module header generation [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • image-resin.bbclass: Fix config.json pretty format [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Allow supervisor update on unmanaged devices [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v8.6.3 [Cameron Diver]



  • Expose randomMacAddressScan config.json knob [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Move modemmanager udev rules in /lib/udev/rules.d [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix modemmanager bbappend files [Andrei Gherzan]
  • dnsmasq: Define as a fallback nameserver [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Increase timeout for filesystem label [Vicentiu Galanopulo]
  • Add support for Huawei ME936 modem in MBIM mode [Florin Sarbu]
  • Backport systemd sd-shutdown improvements for sumo versions [Florin Sarbu]
  • Include avahi d-bus introspection files in rootfs [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix custom udev rules when rule is removed from config.json [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • resin-mounts: Add NetworkManager conf.d bind mounts [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add support to pass custom configuration to NetworkManager [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add info about SSH and Avahi services [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Avoid xtables lock in resin-proxy-config [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Migrate the supervisor to balena repositories [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update balena-supervisor to v8.3.5 [Cameron Diver]
  • Update supported modems list [Florin Sarbu]



  • Rename resin-unique-key to balena-unique-key [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Don't let resin-unique-key rewrite config.json [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Generate ssh host key at first boot (not at first connection) [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix extraneous space in kernel-resin.bbclass config [Florin Sarbu]
  • Drop obsolete eval from kernel-resin's do_kernel_resin_reconfigure [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add SyslogIdentifier for balena and resin-supervisor healthdog services [Matthew McGinn]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v8.0.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Resin-info: Small tweak for balenaCloud product [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.25.8 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Rename resinOS to balenaOS [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.25.5 [Cameron Diver]
  • Recipes-containers: Increase healthcheck timeout to 180s [Gergely Imreh]
  • .gitignore: add node_modules and package-lock files [Giovanni Garufi]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.25.3 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.25.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Include a file [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update to ModemManager v1.8.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Updates on [Vicentiu Galanopulo]



  • Improve systemd service ordering in rollbacks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.24.1 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Avoid expander on flasher based on root kernel argument [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Resin-vars: Implement custom ssh keys service [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix redsocks interface creation when no proxy configured [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Replace NM's DHCP request option "Client indentifier" with udhcpc style option [Sebastian Panceac]
  • Fix for rollbacks in case of old balenaOS version [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.21.4 [Cameron Diver]
  • Warn if rules are found in /etc/udev/rules.d [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add support to load custom udev rules from config.json [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Aufs-util: Package auplink separately [Florin Sarbu]
  • Enable kernel config dependencies for MBIM and QMI [Florin Sarbu]
  • Set UPX to use LZMA compression by default [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Downgrade UPX to 3.94 for ARM [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Balena update for rollbacks. mobynit can now mount rootfs from sysroot. [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Fix proxy when using containers over bridge network [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add support for aufs 4.9.9+, 4.9.94+, 4.18 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add rollback-altboot service before balena service [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add Automated Rollback recipe [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add Automated Rollback support in u-boot env_resin.h [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add a hook to support Automated Rollbacks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update HUP grub hook to support Automated Rollbacks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update HUP u-boot hook to support Automated Rollbacks [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Move kernel-image-initramfs from resin-image recipe to [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Have 99-resin-grub hostapp-update-hook decide which grub to use [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update Balena to fix tty console hanging in some cases [Petros Angelatos]
  • Pin down cargo deps (using Cargo.lock) to versions known working with rust 1.24.1 (for sumo) [Florin Sarbu]
  • Remove duplicate packaging of bcm43143 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Set ModemManager to ignore Inca Roads Serial Device [Petros Angelatos]
  • Add support for aufs 4.14.56+ [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.19.7 [Cameron Diver]



  • Add a parsable representation of the changelog [Giovanni Garufi]



  • Update grub hooks to prepare to load kernel from root [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.19.4 [Cameron Diver]
  • Kernel-resin.bbclass: Enable CONFIG_IP_NF_TARGET_LOG as a module [John (Jack) Brown]
  • Balena: Update to current HEAD of 17.12-resin [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Compress os-config with UPX on arm64 too [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update upx to 3.95 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add support to skip flasher detection in env_resin.h [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Add the kernel to the rootfs [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Rework resin-supervisor systemd dependency on balena [Florin Sarbu]
  • Enhanced security options for dropbear - sumo [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Enhanced security options for dropbear - rocko [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Enhanced security options for dropbear - pyro [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Enhanced security options for dropbear - morty [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Enhanced security options for dropbear - krogoth [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Resin-proxy-config: The no_proxy file fails to parse when missing EOL [Rich Bayliss]



  • Os-config: UPX is broken on aarch64 [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Allow flasher types to pin preloaded devices [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Disable PIE for go [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Disable PIE for balena [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Bump balena version to latest 17.12-resin [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Update NetworkManager to 1.12.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Avoid os-config-devicekey / uuid service race [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Move the rw copy of config.json out of /tmp for flasher [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix dashboard feedback on fast flashing devices [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix ucl dependency in upx [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update kernel-modules-headers to v0.0.11 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update resin supervisor to v7.16.6 [Cameron Diver]



  • Update usb-modeswitch to version 2.5.0 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix kernel-modules-headers compile missing bio.h [Florin Sarbu]
  • Enable kernel config CONFIG_USB_SERIAL_CP210X as module [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin supervisor to v7.16.4 [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix ModemManager journald logs [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix openvpn journald logs [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Set maximum openvpn reconnect timeout to 2 minutes [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Resin-image: Handle absolute paths in RESIN_BOOT_PARTITION_FILES [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Exclude writable files from image's fingerprints file [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.16.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Use v4 API calls, move auth token into the request header [Gergely Imreh]
  • Fix no-pie variable name in tini rocko [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix alternative builds warnings in busybox [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Don't compile mobynit in rocko with PIE [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix key replace build warnings [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update go in krogoth to v1.9.4 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update go in morty to v1.9.4 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update go in pyro to v1.9.4 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena to version 17.12 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix when ntp servers passed via config.json and dhcp [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Disable PIE for the aufs-util package for Rocko boards [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Disable PIE for the aufs-util package for Sumo boards [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update resin supervisor to v7.16.0 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Document supported modems [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Allow re-run of useradd commands in docker-disk's [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update rust to 1.20 and cargo to 0.21.0 in Morty [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update rust to 1.20 and cargo to 0.21.0 in Krogoth [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Unify managed and unmanaged images and introduce os-config [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update resin-supervisor v 7.14.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Fix rootfs fingerprints on poky rocko or newer [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Reboot device if there is a kernel panic [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]



  • Update resin-supervisor to v7.13.2 [Cameron Diver]



  • Avoid overwriting SECURITY_CFLAGS for tini recipe [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix tini segfault after sumo update [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update ModemManager to 1.8.0 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Switch NetworkManager to using the internal DHCP client [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update NetworkManager to 1.12.0 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin-supervisor to 7.13.1 [Cameron Diver]



  • Update balena to fix boot lag [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Set DHCP timeout to infinity for IPv4 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add aufs support for kernels 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Fix mobynit runtime crash when compiled with gcc 7.3.0 with static PIE support enabled [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix typo in balena systemd service [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Various fixes for issues introduced by the switch to chrony [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fsck all partitions if resin-data isn't seen [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Remove jethro and fido yocto versions support [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update resin-supervisor to 7.11.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Replace systemd-timesyncd with chrony [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Set ModemManager to ignore STM32F407 devices [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update resin-supervisor to 7.10.0 [Cameron Diver]
  • Add support for yocto sumo [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update with more yocto versions [Zubair Lutfullah Kakakhel]
  • Docker-resin-supverisor-disk: Update supervisor to version 7.9.0 [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Docker-resin-supverisor-disk: Update supervisor to version 7.5.6 [Cameron Diver]



  • Fix typo in timeinit-timestamp service [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Use system clock at boot based on RTC when available [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update Network Manager to version 1.10.2 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Adds Teensy udev rules [Henry Miskin]



  • Initialize system clock using the build time [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix typo in resin-mounts [Mans Zigher]
  • Update supervisor to v7.4.3 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Update supervisor to v7.4.2 [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Move to Supervisor v7.4.1. [Heds Simons]
  • Pass self-signed CA data to the Supervisor and for Docker registry trust. [Heds Simons]
  • Extract balenaRootCA property from config.json to allow interoperation with a self-signed service. [Heds Simons]
  • Split resin specific changes in dnsmasq in a separate bbappend [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Allow not existing supervisor.conf file [Bruno Binet]
  • Remove remnants of 1.x updater, which is not needed anymore [Gergely Imreh]
  • Allow update resin spervisor when API endpoint is not available [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Apply upstream patch for redsocks to fix http-config regression [Gergely Imreh]
  • Update supervisor to v7.1.20 [Akis Kesoglou]



  • Fig slang configure build warning [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix racing issue of state label existance in initramfs [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Stop dependending on udev settle at boot [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Fix persistent logging [Andrei Gherzan]
  • USB Modem (CDC ACM) support enabled as kernel module [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v7.1.18 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Add support for persistent NetworkManager state directory [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Update supervisor to v7.1.14 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update supervisor to v7.1.11 [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Balena: Update package to include deadlock fix [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Remove bashisms in resin-init-flasher recipe [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Disable openvpn time-based tls key renegotiation [Will Boyce]



  • Update supervisor to v7.1.7 [Theodor Gherzan]



  • Update supervisor to v7.1.3 [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Resin-vars: Assume VPN port 443 if 1723 is provided in config.json [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Make update-resin-supervisor POSIX compliant [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add resin-openvpn.service alias for openvpn.service [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Fix docker-disk when docker build fails to not leave root files behind [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v7.1.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Fix connectivity in flasher images [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add missing kernel config dependency for leds-gpio [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Fix docker-disk when not including any docker image [Florin Sarbu]



  • Make sure rocko update doesn't add packages resinOS doesn't depend on [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Run bluetoothd with --experimental flag [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Resin-image-flasher fixes for rocko support [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Use the correct, full yocto CC/CXX variables when using go [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix 8000c in PACKAGES [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Always have /lib/modules directory in rootfs as supervisor requires it [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix console output when running resinOS with systemd >= 232 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Bring back the package which includes firmware for wilwifi 8000c [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update OpenVPN to 2.4.3 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Replace deprecated variable IMAGE_DEPENDS from image_types_resin.bbclass [Florin Sarbu]
  • Replace deprecated variable IMAGE_DEPENDS from [Florin Sarbu]
  • Adapt sysroot services/units to be used with resinOS in container [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Remove deprecated firmware: 8000c [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Resin-state-reset: This service now only removes the root-overlay [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix resin-provisioner 1.0.4 compile error on Poky Rocko [Florin Sarbu]
  • Make resin-provisioner only package the resulted go binary [Florin Sarbu]
  • Prepare the balena recipe for Poky Rocko [Florin Sarbu]
  • Use update-alternatives for deploying resolv.conf through dnsmasq [Florin Sarbu]
  • Make ModemManager depend on libxslt-native at build-time for Poky Rocko [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add initial structure for supporting Poky Rocko [Florin Sarbu]
  • Do not apply the use_atomic_key_generation_in_all_cases patch for dropbear 2017.75 or newer [Florin Sarbu]
  • Make image-resin.bbclass depend on jq-native at buildtime [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix ucl-native ACC conformance test configure error on gcc6 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update ModemManager to version 1.7.990 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Rename partition mount services to .service and handle stopping services [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Rename openvpn-resin service to openvpn [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Kernel-resin: Fix warnings about CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v6.6.3 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Let systemd handle openvpn run directory [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add support for running resinOS in a docker container [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add fs check for boot partition in initramfs [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix kernel-modules-headers when building from sstate [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Avoid mount warnings when using systemd mount units on files [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add support for private docker registry [Bruno Binet]
  • Docker-disk: Various improvements [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Networkmanager: Use bash-completion bbclass [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Use VPN port from config.json (defaulting it to 443) [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Housekeeping: adding PR template [Gergely Imreh]
  • Replace busybox less by GNU less [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix BALENA_STORAGE when machine specific definition is used [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Coreutils: Set uptime to use procfs for accurate uptime [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Install os-release file in the boot partition [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update balena to include locks fix [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Healthdog: Fix RPATH on newer meta-rust [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v6.6.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update supervisor to v6.5.9 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update supervisor to v6.5.8 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Systemd: Backport patch to fix Remote DOS of systemd-resolve service [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Hostapp-update: Bind mount /dev from host so we can resolv labels [Andrei Gherzan]
  • NetworkManager: Allow managing "non-balena" bridge interfaces [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Add lsof package [Florin Sarbu]
  • Bring back resin-device-progress in resin-image [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v6.5.7 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Make hostapp-update-hooks rollback on failure optional [Gergely Imreh]



  • Activate memory/swap cgroups in kernel [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Make the grub hostapp update hook also work with non-EFI grub configs [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update supervisor to v6.5.3 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Pass /mnt/root/var/lib/docker as DOCKER_ROOT to the supervisor [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update supervisor to v6.5.1 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Use healthcheck with systemd and healthdog for supervisor [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v6.5.0 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Fix openvpn reporting when connectivity goes out, due to a filesystem permissions issue [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Update balena cu include healthcheck support [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add healthdog monitoring of balena [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Run the update container as privileged [Florin Sarbu]
  • Fix 0-bootfiles when running hooks [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add the lsblk binary to the flasher rootfs [Florin Sarbu]
  • Add boot partition space check for 0-bootfiles hostapp-update hook [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix hostapp-update to run the hooks for the OS we update to [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Switch to balena [Andrei Gherzan]



  • Kernel-modules-headers: Include aarch64 fix [Theodor Gherzan]



  • Support for legacy bootloaders [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Update NetworkManager to version 1.10.0 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update aufs for kernel versions from 4.4 to 4.13 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Do our best to ensure we copy to internal media the config.json after resin-device-register was able to register the board [Florin Sarbu]



  • Delete the provisioning key after registering, to fix VPN authentication in flasher images [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Resin-image-initramfs: Include ext4 filesystem check module in our initramfs [Florin Sarbu]
  • Hostapp-update-hooks: fix typos in hook [Gergely Imreh]
  • Image-resin.bbclass: Add build time dependency on coreutils-native [Florin Sarbu]
  • Hostapp-update-hooks: Use boot files list from the 'next' OS [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add required kernel config dependency for being able to use redsocks [Florin Sarbu]
  • Check for enough space in boot partition to support atomic copy operations [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update libmbim to version 1.14.2 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update libqmi to version 1.18.0 [Florin Sarbu]



  • Add supervisor for the intel-quark family [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Update ModemManager to version 1.6.10 [Florin Sarbu]
  • Update supervisor to v6.4.2 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Ensure OpenVPN is restarted when config.json changes [Will Newton]
  • Support grub boards with hostapp-update-hooks [Theodor Gherzan]



  • Update supervisor to v6.3.6 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Update API call in update-resin-supervisor for pine 5 [Gergely Imreh]
  • Fix start-resin-supervisor to start even when no supervisor image present [Gergely Imreh]
  • Update supervisor to v6.3.5 [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Fix fsck of boot partition with dosfstools [Will Newton]
  • Backport ModemManager flow control patches [Will Newton]
  • Update dnsmasq to 2.78 [Will Newton]



  • Fix mkfs.hostapp-ext4 with pyro [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Fix a syntax error in image_types_resin [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add a fixed goarch.bbclass for pyro [Will Newton]
  • Docker: Improved pull progress reporting [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Update supervisor to v6.3.1 [Akis Kesoglou]



  • Update docker [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Ensure docker links with systemd in pyro [Will Newton]



  • Add support for overaly2 in mobynit [Theodor Gherzan]
  • GPT support [Theodor Gherzan]
  • Update-resin-supervisor: device API key is substituted incorrectly [Gergely Imreh]
  • Support kernel 4.13 [Will Newton]
  • Update supervisor to v6.3.0 [Akis Kesoglou]



  • Fixes for Pyro-based flasher images [Will Newton]
  • Sort config.json keys [Will Newton]



  • Provide generic hostapp update hooks [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Deploy a list of boot files in root partition [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v6.2.9 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Add usbutils package [Will Newton]
  • Switch docker to inherit from Go class [Will Newton]
  • Enable zram kernel module by default [Will Newton]
  • Make sure hci bluetooth interfaces are activated once booted [Florin Sarbu]
  • Enable kernel stack protection [Will Newton]
  • Enable Yocto security flags on all builds [Will Newton]
  • Update gnutls to 3.5.9 in morty because of blocking NetworkManager [Robert Fritzsche]



  • Force use of host's docker daemon for the docker-disk recipe [Florin Sarbu]
  • Remove unused plymouth files to reduce size [Michal Mazurek]



  • Remove obsolete Go recipes [Will Newton]
  • Dynamically link docker [Petros Angelatos]
  • Include connectivity firmwares in Pyro [Will Newton]
  • Add glib-2.0-native dependencies for Pyro [Will Newton]
  • Switch to hostapp enabled rootfs [Petros Angelatos]
  • Update docker to 17.06 [Petros Angelatos]
  • Update modem manager to 1.6.8 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Use poky go recipes for Pyro and above [Will Newton]
  • Patch mtools directory creation [Will Newton]
  • Enable building Docker on Yocto Pyro [Will Newton]
  • Enable fsck for resin-state partition [Will Newton]
  • Add host tool dependencies for Yocto Pyro [Will Newton]
  • Move systemd sanity check to image recipes [Will Newton]
  • Disable rarely used kernel configs for size [Will Newton]



  • Update NetworkManager to 1.8.2 [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Only install systemd-analyze in development images [Will Newton]
  • Avoid removing the supervisor container when the supervisor exits [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Update supervisor to v6.2.5 [Pablo Carranza Velez]



  • Fix variable referencing in default variable substitution inside prepare-openvpn script [Florin Sarbu]



  • Use separate line for version in changelog file [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Run OpenVPN service as openvpn user [Andreas Fitzek]
  • Update supervisor to v6.2.1 [Akis Kesoglou]
  • Watch for VPN config changes in config.json [Pagan Gazzard]



  • Resize the splash logo to full screen instead of half screen [Gergely Imreh]
  • Set docker bridge subnet to [Petros Angelatos]
  • Re-enable UPX compression on AArch64 [Will Newton]
  • Resin-device-progress: fix typos that broke script [Gergely Imreh]
  • Upgrade upx to 3.94 [Will Newton]
  • Set deviceType in config.json [Will Newton]
  • Update supervisor to v6.1.3 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Fix typo in resin-persistent-logs [Will Newton]
  • Use BBCLASSEXTEND rather than inherit native [Florin Sarbu]



  • Update supervisor to v6.1.2 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Support building with Yocto Pyro [Will Newton]
  • Disable resin-sample NetworkManager connection [Will Newton]
  • Remove support for Yocto Daisy [Will Newton]



  • Update supervisor to v6.0.1 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Add support for overlay2 as docker storage driver [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Detect filesystem type automatically in resin mount systemd services [Michal Mazurek]
  • Fix util-linux to work with ubifs [Michal Mazurek]
  • Allow setting DNS servers in config.json [Will Newton]
  • Make sure resin-state-reset doesn't end up in an inconsistent state [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Remove latest supervisor tag as it is not used anymore [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add NTP configuration service [Will Newton]
  • Use full list of resin NTP servers [Will Newton]
  • Document config.json keys in [Will Newton]
  • Document Change-type and Changelog-entry git commit footers [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add systemd as a required distro feature [Will Newton]



  • Fix splash image migration in flasher images [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Add missing netfilter configs for our redsocks usage [Florin Sarbu]



  • Resin-vars: Fetch all the vars in resin-vars [Pagan Gazzard]
  • Add comment in supervisor.conf for clarity [Petros Angelatos]
  • Prevent supervisor from killing itself [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Store both image and tag in the temporary supervisor.conf [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Use current changelog format with versionist [Andrei Gherzan]
  • Update supervisor to v5.1.0 and use aarch64-supervisor for aarch64 [Pablo Carranza Velez]
  • Validate docker config from disk to avoid panicing [Petros Angelatos]
  • Versionist: add support for full versionist use [Gergely Imreh]



  • Add support for transparent proxy redirection using redsocks [Pablo]
  • Add prerequisites for ipk packages in resinOS images [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to v5.0.0 [Pablo]
  • Allow downloading a missing supervisor [Will]
  • Add busybox patch to fix tar unpacking [Will]
  • Include support for the RT5572 wireless chipset [Theodor]
  • Add a quirk for /etc/mtab [Will]
  • Switch to ntp pool [petrosagg]
  • Undefine backwards compatibilty variable, INITRAMFS_TASK [Theodor]
  • Enable CONFIG_KEYS, docker 17 requirment [Theodor]
  • Update NetworkManager to 1.8.0 [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to v4.3.1 [Andrei]
  • Set NetworkManager connection attempts to infinity [petrosagg]
  • Update Docker to 17.03.1 [Theodor]
  • Include fsck.vfat in resinOS [Andrei]



  • Update supervisor to v4.2.4 [Pablo]



  • Fix dependencies for mount service in /var/lib [Andrei]
  • Various build fixes when using other package formats like ipk [Andrei]
  • Define IMAGE_NAME_SUFFIX, needed for resinhup, for Yocto versions older than Morty [Florin]
  • Add support for modifying the regulatory domain for wifi interfaces [Michal]
  • Add support for qmi and mbim cell modems [Joshua]
  • Disable all password logins on production images, rather than just root logins - this gets rid of the password prompt dialog that users have seen. [Page]



  • Enable the resin-uboot implementation to also boot flasher images from USB media [Florin]
  • Use supervisor tag as supervisor recipe PV [Andrei}



  • Copy resinOS_uEnv.txt from external to internal media [Theodor]
  • Fix resin-state-conf copying mechanism [Theodor]
  • Don't fingerprint config.json [Andrei]
  • Prevent resin-unique-key from running concurrently [Michal]
  • Add iwlwifi 8265 firmware [Florin]
  • Disable coredumps [Jon]
  • Add bind mounts for systemd persistent data [Jon]
  • Update supervisor to v4.2.2 [Page]
  • Explicitly set CONFIG_HIDRAW=y [Michal]
  • Fix symlink creation in resinhup_backwards_compatible_link() [Michal]



  • Fix build of kernel-modules-headers on kernel 4.8+ [Andrei]
  • Use ondemand as default governor [Andrei]
  • Do not force fsck on the data partition [Theodor]
  • Switch to the new device register endpoint which exchanges the provisioning key for a device api key [Page]
  • Switch to using a device api key for api calls and vpn authentication if it is present [Page]



  • Don't use getty generator even for development images [Andrei]
  • Fix resinos-img image compression [Theodor]
  • Revert 05288ce19781f9ab3b8c528f49537516b58db050 [Theodor]
  • Update NetworkManager to version 1.6.2 [Florin]
  • Update supervisor to v4.1.2 [Pablo]
  • Add aufs hashes for more kernel versions [fboudra]
  • Calculate IMAGE_ROOTFS_MAXSIZE dynamically [fboudra]
  • Don't attempt UPX compression on aarch64 [fboudra]
  • Tidy arch detection in kernel-modules-headers [fboudra]





  • Update supervisor to v4.1.1 [Pablo]
  • Replace echo with info in the resindataexpander initramfs script [Florin]
  • Don't stop plymouth at boot [Andrei]



  • Fix busybox switch_root when console=null [Andrei]
  • Make the initrams framework also parse root=LABEL= params [Florin]
  • Fix audit disable dependencies [Theodor]
  • Properly implement the ro_rootfs script [Theodor]
  • Make rootfs identical to resinhup packages [Andrei]



  • Enable by-partuuid symlinks for our DOS partition scheme also for Poky Jethro and Poky Krogoth based boards [Florin]
  • Ship with e2fsprogs-tune2fs [Michal]



  • Fix flasher detection in initramfs scripts [Andrei]
  • Fix initramfs-framework build on morty [Andrei]



  • Fix initramfs-framework for non-morty boards [Theodor]
  • Fix flasher when it might corrupt the internal device [Andrei]



  • Use stateless flasher partitions [Andrei]
  • Refactor persistent logging [Theodor]
  • Add support for RDT promote [Andrei]
  • Fix image flag files on non uboot boards [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to v4.0.0 [Pablo]
  • Change "test -z" with "test -n" in the U-Boot MMC scanning procedure [Florin]
  • Implement MMC scanning for U-Boot [Andrei]
  • Resin-info should not be present in our production images [Theodor]
  • Implement resin-uboot based on v2.0 specification [Andrei]



  • Fix a compile error on krogoth boards [Andrei]



  • Disable audit subsystem [Theodor]
  • Run openvpn on flasher too [Andrei]
  • Add VARIANT/VARIANT_ID in os-release [Andrei]
  • Modify partitions label, define entire resinOS space used to 700MiB and other minor changes [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to v3.0.1 [Pablo]
  • Configure an armv7ve repository for the Resin Supervisor [Michal]
  • Fix the location where to create the resinhup bundles when using poky morty [Florin]
  • Introduce debug tools package group add mkfs.ext4 in resin-image [Andrei]
  • Halve the UUID length to 16 bytes [Michal]



  • Fix sectors per track for targets smaller than 512 MB [Andrei]



  • Introduce new host OS versioning scheme [Andrei]
  • Add jethro support [Andrei]
  • Fix missing quotes when testing for IMGDEPLOYDIR [Florin]



  • Use static resolv.conf [Andrei]
  • Switch rootfs to ext4 [Andrei]
  • Adapt resinhup for poky morty migration [Florin]
  • Add support for multiple entries in INTERNAL_DEVICE_KERNEL [Andrei]
  • Fix bug with the .docker mountpoint [Theodor]
  • Remove the supervisor container in the update script [Pablo]
  • Do not remove the supervisor container in every start [Pablo]
  • Update supervisor to v3.0.0 [Pablo]



  • Add xt_set kernel module for all of our devices [Theodor]
  • Make /home/root/.docker writable [Theodor]
  • Prevent docker from thrashing the page cache using posix_fadvise [petrosagg]
  • Introduce meta-resin-morty for using meta-resin with poky morty [Florin]
  • Add resinhup machine independent support in U-Boot [Andrei]
  • Remove BTRFS support from the kernel [Michal]
  • Backport dropbear atomic hostkey generation patch [Florin]
  • Update supervisor to v2.9.0 [Pablo]
  • Rewrite prepare-openvpn (style) and make it fail on error [Michal]
  • Ensure prepare-openvpn.service starts after var-volatile.mount [Michal]



  • Fix supervisor.conf's SUPERVISOR_TAG variable [Florin]



  • Deactivate CONFIG_WATCHDOG_NOWAYOUT to make sure we can shutdown [Andrei]



  • Add inode tuning (1 inode for 8192 bytes ) in mkfs.ext4 for the resin-data partition [Praneeth]
  • Fix missing [Manager] section for systemd watchdog setting [Florin]
  • Add missing dependency for the resin-supervisor.service [Theodor]
  • Specify the supervisor tag with a local variable [Theodor]
  • Update supervisor to v2.8.3 [Pablo]
  • Activate kernel configs for supporting iptables REJECT, MASQUERADE targets [Florin]
  • systemd: enable watchdog at 10 seconds [Florin]
  • Allow resin-init-flasher to also flash both MLO and regular u-boot at the same time [Florin]
  • Fix page size detection in go for arm64 boards [Andrei]



  • Update supervisor to v2.8.2 [Pablo]



  • Generate SUPERVISOR_REPOSITORY dynamically so no need to define it in resin-<board> anymore [Andrei]
  • Fix container name conflict when creating a docker container [petrosagg]
  • Don't compress docker binary anymore with UPX [Andrei]
  • Fix /var/lib/docker corruption after power cut [petrosagg]
  • Truncate hostname to 7 characters [Michal]
  • Fix aufs patching on non git kernel sources [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to v2.8.1 [Pablo]



  • Update supervisor to v2.7.1 [Pablo]
  • Move supervisor.conf from /etc to /etc/resin-supervisor [Theodor]
  • Update supervisor to v2.7.0 [Pablo]
  • Add guide for new board adoption [Florin]
  • Update supervisor to v2.6.2 [Pablo]



  • Configure kernel with CONFIG_SECCOMP [Andrei]
  • Update kernel-module-headers to v0.0.7 [Lorenzo]
  • Implement persistent logging functionality [Andrei]
  • Increase the root filesystem size to 300M [Andrei]
  • Bump supervisor to 2.5.2 [Andrei]
  • Added a warning when skipping pulling the supervisor [Page]
  • Achieve read-only root filesystem [Theodor]
  • Implement aufs fetch and unpack functionality in kernel-resin.bbclass [Florin]
  • Use aufs as docker storage driver with ext4 as backing filesystem instead of btrfs [Florin]
  • Replace connman with NetworkManager [Michal]
  • Generate config.json from the build system [Theodor]
  • Add usb-modeswitch [Michal]
  • Allow hostname to be defined through config.json [Theodor]
  • Expose docker socket over TCP on development images [Andrei]
  • Integrate and configure avahi [Andrei]
  • Start using gzip archives for kernel module headers [Andrei]
  • Replace DEBUG_IMAGE with DEVELOPMENT_IMAGE [Theodor]
  • Update supervisor to v2.5.0 [Pablo]



  • Update supervisor to v2.3.0 [Pablo]



  • Update supervisor to v2.2.1 [petrosagg]



  • Update supervisor to v2.2.0 [Kostas]





  • Update supervisor to v2.1.1 [Pablo]
  • Add device-type.json file to the boot partitions of our images [Florin]
  • Enable kernel modules ip6table_nat, nf_nat_ipv6 and subset of ip_set [Florin]
  • Change openvpn to use config file from /run [Florin]
  • Change partition type of resin-conf from vfat to ext4 [Theodor]
  • Move config.json to resin-boot partition [Theodor]
  • Change resin-boot mount point from /boot to /mnt/boot [Theodor]
  • Make dropbear host key generation atomic [Michal]
  • Change the TUN device used by OpenVPN to resin-vpn to minimize conflict with user applications using tun0 [Praneeth]
  • Update supervisor to v2.1.0 [Pablo]
  • Use FHS structure in the root of resinhup packages [Andrei]



  • Backport STOPSIGNAL fix for docker [petrosagg]
  • Make Docker log to journald [Michal]





  • Provide custom splash logo for our flasher type [Theodor]
  • Update supervisor to v1.14.0 [Pablo]
  • Set the default supervisor tag in /etc/supervisor.conf to the bundled supervisor tag. [Page]
  • Update firmware: iwlwifi-7265D-10 -> iwlwifi-7265D-13 [Michal]



  • Fix plymouth output to tty1 [Theodor]
  • Use FAT16 filesystems as we do for partitions [Andrei]
  • Fix boltdb alignment issue for armv5 in docker, fixes docker 1.10.3 on armv5 devices [Lorenzo]
  • Include firmware for iwlwifi-8000C-13 - 6th generation Intel NUC [Andrei]
  • Disable DHCP server functionality from dnsmasq [Florin]
  • Update supervisor to v1.13.0 [Andrei]
  • Start dropbearkey.service at boot and don't wait for first connection [Andrei]
  • Both remove systemd-serialgetty symlinks and disable systemd-getty-generator for non-debug builds [Florin]
  • Disable ntp from connman and rely only on systemd-timesyncd with selected timeservers [Florin]



  • Various meta-resin layer tweaks [Andrei]
  • Add support for resinhup when running kernel modules operations [Andrei]
  • Update supervisor to 1.12.1 [Pablo]





  • Update resin supervisor to v1.11.6 [Florin]
  • Refactor openvpn dependencies [Florin]



  • Replace STAGING_BUILD by DEBUG_IMAGE and various refactorings [Andrei]
  • Update to latest kernel-modules-headers [Florin]



  • Implement mechanism for compressed kernel modules [Andrei]
  • Fix connman multiple IP over DHCP [Andrei]
  • Have the ability to inject custom docker images for connectable builds [Andrei]
  • Integrate resin-provisioner [Andrei]
  • Include slug and machine in os-release [Andrei]
  • Define and implement resin connectable builds [Andrei]
  • Split the registration and uuid generation, of a device, into separate packages [Theodor]
  • Sanitize target arch for x86 machines [Florin]
  • Ensure kernel build artefacts are present for kernel-modules-headers [Florin]
  • Add "set -e" to resin-init-flasher [Florin]
  • Add recipe for deploying an archive with kernel modules headers [Florin]
  • Have the ability at build time to configure the preloaded docker image in the BTRFS partition [Andrei]



  • Remove board specific bootloader handling from the flasher [Florin]
  • Provide script to inject board specific flashing procedures [Theodor]
  • Implement and document host OS new versioning scheme [Andrei]
  • Set PreferredTechnologies to "wifi,ethernet" [Florin]
  • Do not add nameserver routes in the kernel IP routing table [Florin]
  • Add support for migration to docker engine 1.10 in resinhup [Andrei]
  • Move resin-image sdcard file in the rootfs instead of the boot partition [Florin]
  • Add compression mechanism for binaries, using upx [Theodor]
  • Switch to docker 1.10.3 [Theodor]
  • Remove deprecated mmcroot from flasher init script [Andrei]
  • Deploy license.manifest [Andrei]



  • Add build information in the target rootfs [Florin]
  • Don't bind mount /etc/resolv.conf anymore [Florin]
  • Have dnsmasq listen on instead of [Florin]



  • Add resin-init-board as a runtime dependency to resin-init-flasher [Florin]



  • Execute resin-init-board from the flasher also [Florin]
  • Use realpath from coreutils-native for generating SD images [Andrei]
  • Add rsync to our image [Theodor]
  • Add p2p to NetworkInterfaceBlacklist in connman main.conf file [Florin]
  • Add dnsmasq and do changes to connman so dnsmasq is used according to our platform needs [Florin]
  • Define "rce" as a provider for the "docker" package [Florin]



  • Make resin-supervisor-disk's PV variable not contain the ':' character [Florin]
  • Workaround for "docker images" behavior - [Florin]
  • Have device registration provided by supervisor in resin-image and resin-device-register in resin-image-flasher [Andrei]
  • Include crda in resin images [Andrei]
  • Add support for hid-multitouch - available as kernel module [Andrei]
  • Simplify os-release version and add some resin specific info [Andrei]
  • Set IMAGE_ROOTFS_SIZE to zero as default [Florin]
  • Update layer with the ability to use jethro [Theodor]



  • Migrate repositories to github [Florin]
  • Add resinhup package for running hostOS updates [Andrei]
  • Export deltaEndpoint as DELTA_ENDPOINT [Andrei]



  • Upgrade systemd to version 216 and add volatile-binds dependency [Florin]
  • Fix racing issue on edison [Andrei]
  • Add support ts7700 [Theodor]
  • Remove obsolete pseudo patch. This patch is now in poky [Florin]
  • Remove obsolete bash patches. These patches are now in poky [Florin]
  • Ensure connman systemd service is enabled on boot [Florin]
  • Change OOM Adjust Score of RCE to -900 [Praneeth]
  • Change OOM Adjust Score of Connman to -1000 [Praneeth]
  • Change OOM Adjust Score of OpenVPN to -1000 [Praneeth]




  • Add mechanism for user loading custom splash logo. [Theodor]
  • Add splash screen for all our images. [Theodor]
  • Make connman an optional network manager [Andrei]
  • Always restart openvpn service [Andrei]
  • Include distribution information file in rootfs [Andrei]
  • Mechanism for generating resinhup-tar packages. [Andrei]
  • Implement fingerprints for resin-boot and resin-root [Andrei]
  • Explicitly configure kernel with config.gz built in support [Andrei]



  • Removed the global bblayers.conf.sample and local.conf.sample [Jon]
  • Removed the append from the BBMASK declaration in meta-resin-toradex layer.conf [Jon]
  • Fix ${S} and ${DEPLOY_DIR_IMAGE} variables for zc702-zynq7 [Jon]
  • Make resin-supervisor.service restartable on failures [Jon]
  • Fix supervisor preloading [Andrei]

2015-10-29 - apalis-imx6 colibri-imx6

  • Added apalis-imx6 and colibri-imx6 support [Theodor]


  • Add firmware for Intel Wireless 7265 chipsets [Jon]
  • Added support for specifying the supervisor tag to include. [Page]
  • Changed flasher to shutdown instead of reboot [Jon]


  • Fix DNS issues with openvpn [Andrei]
  • Add support for booting from internal device on vab820-quad [Jon]

2015-10-28 - beaglebone cubox-i edison nitrogen6x nuc odroid-c1 odroid-ux3 parallella-hdmi-resin raspberrypi raspberrypi2 ts4900 vab820-quad zc702-zynq7

  • Update the supervisor.conf supervisor image when updating the supervisor so that switching image/registry can work. [Page]
  • Use armv7hf-supervisor for rpi2 [Page]
  • Change update-resin-supervisor.timer to run every 24 hours instead of 5 mins [Praneeth]
  • Remove any service that might start getty on the production images [Theodor]
  • Move to common code the resin-sdcard addition for flasher boards [Jon]
  • Fixed supervisor update not running new image due to invalid comment. [Andrei]
  • Change git repo used for VIA arm boards [Jon]
  • Removed resolved. [Jon]

2015-10-08 - beaglebone cubox-i edison nitrogen6x nuc odroid-c1 odroid-ux3 parallella-hdmi-resin raspberrypi raspberrypi2 vab820-quad zc702-zynq7

2015-09-29 - ts4900

  • Fix supervisor update missing dependencies [Andrei]
  • Added ts4900 support [Andrei]


  • Add support for C1+ and XU4 ODROID boards [Andrei]
  • Remove device registration in resin-image [Andrei]
  • Add support for r8188eu [Andrei]
  • Add support for Ralink RT5370 [Jon]
  • Make openvpn report connected status by creating a file [Praneeth]
  • Add support for ZC702 boards [Andrei]
  • config.json doesn't change anymore on flasher images [Andrei]
  • Add support for VIA VAB820 boards [Jon]
  • Fetch resin instance variables from config.json (eg API endpoint) [Theodor]
  • We don't load 1-wire driver at boot anymore [Andrei]
  • WiFi can now be configured from config.json - at every boot connman configuration will be redone based on config.json [Andrei]
  • Bring in support for capemgr on beaglebone black [Andrei]
  • Add firmware files for iwlwifi wireless chipsets [Jon]
  • Removed unused package management features [Andrei]
  • Add support for multiple yocto versions [Andrei]


  • Add Intel NUC support - tested on model D34010WYKH [Jon]
  • Switched supervisor caching to be package.json version + docker image id. [Page]
  • Increased supervisor update poll interval to once per day (and on reboot)
  • meta-resin switched to systemd now instead of sysvinit [Theodor]
  • Edison unification. [Theodor]
  • Moved parallella bitstreams and DTS into the image. [Theodor]
  • Added support for edison phone flash tool. [Praneeth]
  • Forcefully remove supervisor container to avoid some issues where a normal remove won't work even though the container is stopped [Page]
  • Fixed fat config partition not mounting on mac. [Theodor]
  • Cache supervisor based upon package.json version. [Theodor]
  • Updated edison BSP. [Praneeth]
  • Added hummingboard support. [Andrei]
  • Some device registration fixes. [Page]
  • Switched to fido. [Theodor]
  • Beaglebone refactor. [Andrei]


  • Stop spawning getty in production builds [Theodor]
  • Add iozone to staging build [Theodor]
  • Add support for unprotected WiFi Tethering with Connman [Praneeth]
  • Add support for Adafruit Touch Screen - Switches to using adafruits fork of fbtft [Praneeth]
  • Add support for Parallella [Theodor]


  • Fix beaglebone connman not starting [Praneeth]


  • Fix the DNS bug occurring because of docker/rce copying resolv.conf before network connectivity. [Praneeth]
  • Change Staging API url to from [Praneeth]


  • Fix resin-net-config to honour network.config and ethernet.config as per the changes in resin-image-maker. [Praneeth]
  • Add tun to NetworkInterfaceBlacklist of connman. [Praneeth]
  • Add --nodnsproxy to connmand startup in both systemd services and init scripts, This disables the internal dns proxy of connman. [Praneeth]
  • Wait for docker to terminate before calling unmount in resin-supervisor-disk [Praneeth]


  • Allowed concurrent building on the resin-supervisor recipe.
  • Fixed first boot connectivity.
  • Added a script to balance the btrfs partition on boot and every 24 hours at midnight
You can’t perform that action at this time.